Luau Recap: July 2021 (#59)
Roblox/luau: docs/_posts/2021-07-30-luau-recap-july-2021.md

---
layout: single
title:  "Luau Recap: July 2021"
---

> Luau is our new language that you can read more about at [https://roblox.github.io/luau](https://roblox.github.io/luau). Our team was still busy working on upcoming Studio Beta feature for script editor, but we did fit in multiple typechecking improvements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Luau is our new language that you can read more about at [https://luau-lang.org](https://luau-lang.org). Our team was still busy working on upcoming Studio Beta feature for script editor, but we did fit in multiple typechecking improvements.
```

Like we've mentioned last time, we will continue working on our new type constraint resolver and this month it learned to handle more complex expressions (including type guards) inside `assert` conditions:
```lua
--!strict
local part = script.Parent:WaitForChild("Part")
assert(part:IsA("BasePart"))
local basepart: BasePart = part -- no longer an error
```

And speaking of assertions, we applied a minor fix so that the type of the `assert` function correctly defines a second optional `string?` parameter.

We have also fixed the type of `string.gmatch` function reported by one of the community members.
We know about issues in a few additional library functions and we'll work to fix them as well.

Hopefully, you didn't see 'free type leak' errors that underline your whole script, but some of you did and reported them to us.
We read those reports and two additional cases have been fixed this month.
We now track only a single one that should be fixed next month.

Another false positive error that was fixed involves tables with __call metatable function.

> We no longer report an error when this method is invoked and we'll also make sure that given arguments match the function definition:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We no longer report a type error when this method is invoked and we'll also make sure that given arguments match the function definition:
```
